Previously on Kyle XY:
What is it?
It's you.
1985?
I found out his name.
The guy in the photo.
Adam Baylin.
Adam Baylin has been missing
for 20 years.
You gotta stop asking questions.
Forget about the past.
Because if you don't
they'll kill you, Kyle.
781227 was scheduled
for termination two months ago.
This company cannot afford to have
that subject loose in the outside world.
- Kyle!
- It's all gonna be OK.
I've got a great thing going,
and I'm not gonna ruin it.
Great for you.
Go out with Amanda,
tap Hilary on the side.
I can't help feeling
that I've let you down.
Let me down?
You made me feel like I was your son.
Noah, is that really you?
Who are you?
It's Mom.
We finally found you.
The kids called from the car.
Apparently, he had a seizure.
It's gonna be OK.
We're gonna figure this out.
That's about what happened.
It's all we've been talking about.
At a glance, anyone would believe
the Petersons and I were related.
They'd say I had
her mouth and his chin.
But I wanted more
than a passing resemblance.
Instead of thinking
they could be my parents,
I needed to feel that they were.
They look like nice people.
What the hell kind of name is Noah?
I can't believe you.
Kyle's getting hauled off.
Can't you think
of something decent to say?
It's not like I want him to go.
He doesn't even look like a Noah.
Do you think they'll want
to take me home with them soon?
Maybe.
I don't know.
We'd lived in Hong Kong
for two years when it happened.
Five years ago Noah left for school
and never came home.
We thought it was a kidnapping,
some sort of extortion scheme.
- David's an executive for a bank.
- There was never a ransom call.
There were no clues,
from the beginning.
Still, we never stopped looking for him.
We never stopped hoping.
And finally, out of nowhere,
a hit on a missing person Web site.
We couldn't tell from the picture,
but after talking to the detective
and now seeing him...
I used to call him
my wandering wonder.
Sharp, inquisitive.
Studying everything, taking it all in.
Kyle is... I'm sorry.
- We're so used to calling him that.
- We understand.
Kyle is special.
And different in many ways.
He was born with some physical defects.
His organs weren't
all in the right place.
Corrective surgeries
have made him as good as new,
but without a bellybutton.
- We have so many questions.
- So do we.
Well, they'll have to wait.
The hospital arranged some DNA tests
to verify paternity. In the meantime...
We were told that Noah has no memory
from the day before he was found.
I put this photo album together.
Thought it might jog some memories.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
You said you had answers.
Foss! Listen to me.
I know you're there.
Who are these people?
I have questions.
- Go ahead.
- Where am I from?
Well, let's see.
You were born in Manhattan.
And from there we moved
around a little bit.
DC, Connecticut, Hong Kong.
- Do I have brothers or sisters?
- We only wanted one.
- Pets?
- We're both allergic.
- Kyle, slow down.
- Maybe if we tell you some stories.
You remember the old claw foot tub?
From the house in Connecticut?
When we were moving to Hong Kong,
Noah kept insisting he didn't want to go
because he didn't know what the tub
would be like. David, as a surprise,
had the tub shipped.
He jumped in it
as soon as we took it out of the crate.
- Slept in it that night.
- And every night until...
Is there anything else you want to ask?
Yes. Who's Adam Baylin?
- Doesn't sound familiar.
- Professor William Kern?
- Who?
- This logo? Do you recognize it?
- Kyle.
- No, they act like they know me.
They can't tell me anything
to help me remember.
They don't know why people are missing
or how these people are connected to me.
It's a lot to take in. It seems like
for all of you, five years is just gone.
Let's go, people.
God is waiting.
You want to go
to Amanda's confirmation with me?
Sure. Church is neat.
And I never get a chance
to wear this suit.
When do you ever wear that suit?
And when did you start reeking
of my aftershave?
- What's her name?
- OK.
Maybe there's this girl named Ashleigh
that I met at a party.
Maybe she goes to Holy Family
and sings in the choir.
And maybe she finds
the scent of a man irresistible.
Tuck in your shirt.
The Lord hates a slob.
Watch yourself.
Church isn't supposed to be fun.
Oh, is that why you never go?
God, she's hot.
Oh, my God, can I even say "God"?
Sorry.
Everywhere I looked,
church provided unsettling contrasts.
People whose beliefs encouraged
honesty also practiced betrayal.
There was a lot about church
I didn't understand,
but I did know that faith meant
believing in something,
often without tangible proof.
I wondered if I'd be able
to do the same with the Petersons
and come to accept them wholeheartedly.
What's he putting on her head?
Everyone else is being quiet, Josh.
I think we should be quiet too.
Did the church walls crumble
at the sight of you?
Very funny.
Yeah, I'd gotten used to Kyle
having no memories.
It feels kind of strange to have
his whole life laid out before us.
Well, he looks happy in these photos.
- How you doing?
- I'm fine.
You can't be fine.
I'm not fine.
Since day one,
he's been searching for clues
to who he is and where he comes from.
And now he knows.
For me to be upset
would just be selfish.
Or human.
I'm fine.
I'm just so proud of her.
Oh.
- Look, it's our neighbor.
- Hi.
- Hey, Kyle.
Good to see you feeling better.
Thanks.
Amanda, I think we should go
and thank the bishop now.
- We already thanked him.
- Amanda.
- OK. God.
- Shh.
Her mother is a piece of work.
I think Amanda has
bigger problems right now.
I know about Hilary.
You can't tell her.
I'm not the one who should.
- Men are such dogs.
- Gee, thanks.
You've proven yourself
to be moderately un-doglike.
Amanda's the nicest girl
in the universe.
How could he cheat on her?
She's a nice girl who doesn't believe
in sex before marriage, and he's a guy.
- That's hideous logic.
- But accurate.
- Church sucks.
- News flash.
- Did you get the DNA results?
- Not yet.
The police run their plates?
Have they done anything
to prove the Petersons
are who they say?
They're not criminals, Declan.
They're a nice, married couple
from Connecticut who lost their son.
- I just want to make sure.
- He has a point.
I mean, aliens can't just land
their craft on the front yard
and get Kyle without drawing attention.
They hatched the perfect plan.
We invite them into our home,
and they make off with our alien.
What?
You wanted to see me, Ms. Thatcher?
Every day that subject 781227
remains alive,
we risk someone
discovering his abilities.
He's always surrounded by people.
It makes it very complicated
to try to take him out.
But I do have a plan in motion.
Just find a moment when he's alone
and get rid of him.
I do not want any evidence
of our experiment to exist
outside the walls of this company.
Let's think this through.
You remember being
in a car on a rainy night.
And seeing Tom Foss
kill Kern in the woods.
- Then you woke up alone.
- With no memory of what just happened.
No memories at all.
We know Professor Kern
was connected to Adam Baylin,
who looked just like me 20 years ago
before he disappeared.
I'm also ruling out time travel
and aliens in pink goo.
It's too ridiculous.
And Adam Baylin drew a picture
of the keycard logo.
Which you subconsciously drew.
Which led me to a location
I couldn't identify.
Then your supposed
real parents show up.
With no idea of where I've been
for the past five years
or why I can do the things I can do.
I got nothing.
But you're not a superhero, either.
I wish more things would come back
to me. They're trapped in my head.
I bet Tom Foss
could put those pieces together.
We can't go near Foss.
It's too dangerous.
You should have seen Charlie
all clean-cut and churchy,
holding her hand
like a freaking choir boy.
Too bad she can't make him sing
like I can.
Hil, I hate to be all doom and gloomy,
but you know this can't end well, right?
I know he doesn't want to hurt her
right now because she lost her dad,
but I can wait.
And what happens
if he dumps her for you?
You're with a guy
who's cheating on his girlfriend.
What's to say
he won't do that to you?
How are you suddenly
a relationship expert?
It's not like Declan's
Mr. Ideal Boyfriend.
No, but weirdly enough,
I trust him.
- Turnaround of the century.
- Crazy, huh?
But sweet.
I'm happy for you.
I didn't get a chance
to thank you for my present.
It was really thoughtful.
Saint Colette is...
Patron saint of people
who've lost a parent.
Yeah.
We haven't had the chance to talk about
what's happened to you since yesterday.
You want to?
You should be happy.
You don't look happy.
I'm not.
Funny thing about my religion, there's
a saint for pretty much everything.
Cab drivers, stomachaches, geese.
There's even a patron saint
for bald people.
Sometimes I wonder,
if everything's covered,
then why do so many bad things
happen to people?
I realized that everyone needs something
to get us through the bad stuff.
So I need a saint.
The patron saint of lost pasts
and confusing futures.
Any idea where I can find one?
Why are they coming again?
Nothing's triggered recognition.
The more they get to know each other,
the more hope
of Kyle remembering them.
Unless there's nothing to remember.
Josh has spun an alien conspiracy theory
of epic proportions.
This is difficult, but we have
to start dealing with the idea
that Kyle might be leaving us.
What's the matter?
I just got off the phone
with the hospital.
The DNA is a match.
Well, now we know.
I'm not going with them.
Damn straight.
Kyle, of course
we don't want to lose you,
- but it's not that easy.
- They're your family.
You're my family.
I don't care what the test says,
they're strangers to me.
How can I go live with them
when you're the only family I know?
- Kyle, wait.
- Honey.
I'd read the story of the father
who sacrificed his son
for the good of all mankind.
I wondered if having faith
meant making our own sacrifices
for the good of others.
You can kneel if you want to.
Helps sometimes.
Gets you in the mood to pray.
I've never prayed before.
It's simple.
It's like telling your troubles
to a friendly ear.
I'm in search of a saint.
Well, you picked a good place.
What do you need a saint for?
I don't know where I belong.
I don't know where I come from.
But I'm supposed to go there,
wherever it is,
with people I don't know.
That's a lot to handle.
I don't know what to do.
And I'm not sure how any of this here
is supposed to help.
Well, whether or not
you consider yourself a believer,
there's someone out there who made you,
who cares about you very much.
In the midst of a confusing situation,
you may not be able to see
or appreciate him,
but he's there
and he wants you to have the answers
to all of your questions.
When?
When the time is right.
I didn't know where I was
or who had taken me.
But it seemed the danger I had
been warned of had finally come to pass.
The memories that haunted me
came flooding in again.
Was I remembering my past?
Or was history repeating itself?
Julia and I prayed for his safety.
We were thankful he was taken in
by people like you and Nicole.
Are you a religious family?
I take it you're not.
Well, I was raised to be,
but it got away from me over the years.
Yeah, we never used to be either,
but when you lose a child,
somehow you need
a kind of higher power for comfort.
I can't blame him for being scared.
We're strangers to him.
And he's like a stranger to us.
Maybe he's not
the only one who's scared.
What if those five years
have changed him somehow?
- They've changed me.
- He's still the same boy you knew.
No matter what happened.
He's still got a sweet tooth.
I caught him putting
Sour Patch Kids on his cereal.
- Oh, my.
- Yeah.
And he's funny.
You know, not just his humor,
but the way he looks at the world.
I mean, he can turn everything
and show it to you in a whole new way.
And he's got such a strong sense
of what's right,
and he's so quick to learn and
so eager to connect with other people.
Like he's connected with you.
With all of us.
Once again
I was in a familiar place,
where my story began.
But suddenly, like a flash,
the whole story fell into place.
- Don't do this.
- Zzyzx ordered you to exterminate him.
- I can't let either of you walk away.
- You were Baylin's mentor.
He trusted you.
Now you're working for them.
Baylin gave up any claim on the boy
when he turned on the company.
They want the boy dead.
I finally had a piece of the truth.
Now it was time to get the rest.
It's all right! It's all right!
Settle down. Listen to me.
It's OK.
I'm sorry about the chloroform.
I tried to get the jump on you
before and it wasn't pretty, so...
I remember what happened... with Kern.
The two of you were talking about
Adam Baylin, something called Zzyzx.
Is that connected with the location
I discovered in Baylin's papers?
The logo?
This is why I warned you
to stop asking questions.
You didn't bring me out here
to lecture me.
- No.
- Then why?
Because I thought
it would help you remember.
Did you hear something?
What?
Get down! Get down! Go! Go!
Are you all right?
Come on! Give me your arm!
Go! Get in! Get in!
You don't know how to drive.
Hold on.
Go!
Hey.
- What are you doing here?
- Driving through the neighborhood
and felt the strains of downer
lesbian music emanating from your house.
Thought you might need a boost.
Let me guess, you think
I should heal my pain through sex?
I was going for a heavy-duty
mack session, but if you insist...
It freaks me out, I spent so much time
not caring if Kyle was here or not...
...and now that he might leave...
- He's not going anywhere.
- You sound like Josh.
- He's got a life here.
A trippy, no-memory, messed-up life,
but it's still a life.
He's not gonna throw that away
for two people he has no memory
of ever knowing.
How can you be so sure?
Because the other ending
to that story's...
It's not something
I'm willing to accept.
You should've let me
take you to the hospital.
I'll take care of it.
Get out of here. Go.
I'm not getting out of this car
until you've told me everything.
You know most of it already.
We were in the woods.
And we were surprised by Kern.
And I killed him
because he was gonna kill you.
By the time I was done
getting rid of the body, you'd woken up
and you wandered into the city
and got put in juvenile detention.
Once Nicole Trager took you in,
I just figured it was smarter to...
...keep an eye on.
Tell me more.
Tell me why people want me dead,
why that test said
David and Julia Peterson were my parents
when I don't remember
anything about them.
Why don't I remember anything before
that night in the woods with Kern?
OK, I'll tell you.
Should we be worried
he's not back?
I think he got overwhelmed.
We'll talk to him.
We can try again tomorrow.
- That would be great.
- OK.
- OK, thanks a lot for your time.
- You're welcome.
- Kyle.
- Noah.
Where you been? Doing OK?
My mind was racing with the
information I'd just learned from Foss.
Foss, my patron saint of lost pasts
and confusing futures.
Everyone was there in front of me.
The family who took me in and the family
who wanted to take me home.
And right then,
I knew exactly what I had to do.
I remember.
Mom.
Dad.
I remember you.
I remember the vacation we had
when I was nine to Hawaii.
I'd never seen a palm tree before.
And you took me to the science museum
where they had the Whispering Corridors.
And we went sailing near the waterfall,
on the boat with the rainbow sail.
And every night at the hotel,
I'd order the same thing for dessert.
Banana split, hold the banana.
Can you tell us what happened to you?
Where you've been all this time?
Still a blank.
Well, once you get home,
I'm sure you can find a new therapist
who can help him recover
even more of his memory.
- Why can't you still be his therapist?
- Yeah, you know him better than anyone.
No offense.
The Petersons live in Connecticut.
So how soon before you leave?
Well, um,
we don't want to rush anything.
I'll be ready to go by tomorrow.
Now that I know, I'm ready.
I can't believe he's leaving
before I got to make out with him.
Kidding.
We should be happy for him.
Keep telling yourself that,
Sister Sunshine.
I thought this was supposed
to be a goodbye party.
Woo-hoo.
I just don't get it.
You went from savant amnesia victim
to banana split guy in, like, two hours?
- It all just came rushing back.
- Dude, I put myself out for you.
I kept your secrets,
almost screwed things up with Lori.
I did everything to help you get to the
bottom of the mystery and now it's done?
Yes.
There's something else going on here.
- Something you're not telling me about.
- You've proven you can keep my secrets.
If there was anything, don't you think
I'd find a way to bring you in on it?
This sucks.
Oh, whoa.
Whoa, did you two
break up or something?
All right. Look, man.
I know you think I'm a bad guy.
It's just, I know where Amanda stands
on the sex thing.
Look, I respect her for it, I do.
You know, I would give anything
for the self-control to wait for her.
I mean, this whole thing with Hilary,
it's just physical.
It has nothing to do
with how much I love Amanda.
Great.
It's OK, I understand.
You have needs.
I have needs too.
Right now, I need to do this.
Don't judge me. I've seen
the way you look at Amanda.
You're dying to tell her.
I'm leaving in a few hours.
The only thing I want
is to know that after I'm gone,
she'll be surrounded
by trustworthy, honest and kind people.
Because that's exactly
the kind of person she is.
- Bye, guys.
- Where are you off to?
- Out.
- I'm sure whatever it is, it can wait.
- Kyle will be leaving soon.
- Shouldn't you call him Noah Peterson?
- That's his real name.
- Hey! Now that's not cool.
You get back here, Josh!
Stephen, he's protecting himself
from some strong emotions now.
He shouldn't be running off.
Well, just let him deal with it
in his own way.
Stephen?
What, Nicole?
Can't I be just a little bit upset?
Yeah, Kyle's going off to his home.
That's where he belongs.
Doesn't make it any easier.
Through this whole thing,
you haven't faltered.
Not once.
Well, in my line of work,
this is what you hope for.
Most foster care stories
don't have happy endings.
For Kyle to be placed
with his real parents
and his memories coming back...
...I couldn't be happier.
Well.
That's why you're my higher power.
You OK?
I'm totally not crying.
Water-proof mascara rules.
What happened?
You know the story.
Homewrecker-in-training
tragically rejected
by the heir to the cheater's throne.
You can say you told me so.
What kind of homewrecker's friend
would that make me?
Put it behind you.
One day, you are gonna meet
a smart, faithful guy...
- Doctor.
... who will whisk you off your feet.
- In his convertible.
- And you'll live happily ever after.
Until the magnificent
divorce settlement.
Exactly.
Have you seen Charlie?
He just disappeared.
He's inside. Cleaning up.
I can't believe you're leaving.
I'll see you again, though.
It's not like forever, right?
I don't want it to be.
OK.
Then no goodbyes.
No goodbyes.
Just, like... see you.
See you.
Come on.
Need any help?
I'm not taking much.
I bet Stephen will be glad
to have his workshop back.
I don't know.
He may want to leave it this way
in case you want to come visit.
That would be nice.
You're not taking these?
Something to remember us by?
I'll draw new ones.
Kyle, if Josh doesn't make it home
to say goodbye, it's not because...
I understand.
Thanks.
- Hey.
Come for a real goodbye?
Yeah, you know,
I don't want him to leave
with me all mad at him.
- Totally un-doglike.
- Don't make a thing out of it.
Out of what?
The fact that you turned me
into a good guy.
I have?
What, Trager, you think all this
sensitive crap comes naturally?
Get real.
I feel like we're having a moment.
I guess that's what happens
when you're in a relationship.
Yeah.
- Horrible, right?
- Awful.
- Hey.
We're all set here.
- So you're finally out of here?
- Yep.
After all that, you're just
a regular kid with normal parents.
Apparently.
I liked you better as an alien.
Don't worry. I still got
a few alien tricks up my sleeve.
Later.
- Thanks for everything.
- Take care, kid.
We'll call you every day.
Ready?
Ready.
Declan.
I left a few things for you.
They're in my room.
Thanks, man.
I remember the vacation
we had in Hawaii when I was nine.
I had never seen a palm tree before.
And you took me to the science museum
where they had the Whispering Corridors.
And we went sailing,
by the waterfall
on the boat with the rainbow sail.
You've proven you can keep my secrets.
If there was anything, don't you think
I'd find a way to bring you in on it?
What you got there?
You two are very good liars.
It's our job.
- Banana split, hold the banana.
- Had to seem authentic.
And the DNA test.
We were provided
the appropriate genetic material.
From who?
Oh, you'll meet him soon.
It's done.
Zzyzx will come after you, you know.
Rebecca Thatcher
will make it her mission.
Yeah.
- What are you gonna do?
- I'll be ready.
What did you tell him?
Go with the Petersons to keep
the Tragers out of danger,
and I'd send him to somebody
that could tell him everything.
Good. I'll be waiting.
Tell me more.
Tell me why people want me dead,
why that test said
David and Julia Peterson were my parents
when I don't remember
anything about them.
Why don't I remember anything before
that night in the woods with Kern?
OK, I'll tell you. You don't remember
anything before that night
because there's nothing to remember.
What do you mean?
Before that night,
for all intents and purposes, you...
You didn't exist.
I assume the news isn't good.
According to records, the boy's
been returned to his birth parents.
That's amusing,
considering he doesn't have any.
I tried to find out who they are,
but the paper trail led
to a series of dead ends.
As though he disappeared
without a trace.
Not entirely.
I have an idea who's behind all of this.
Where are we?
All we were told was to bring you here.
It's good to see you again, Kyle.
I'm Adam Baylin.
What do you want from me?
What would you like to know?
Everything.
Then you should come with me.
Do you think they'll actually tell him
where he came from?
That he was nothing more than
a scientific experiment? A failed one?
Well, Baylin might disagree
with your assessment.
With being a failure?
After all, the boy did what neither of
you intended him to do when you started.
He survived in the outside world.
I'll take care of 781227
and Adam Baylin.
In the meantime,
I've run the diagnostics.
781228 is in excellent condition.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org